From Mathematical Statistics - 7th Edition - Wackerly
Pg 34 - 35 Exercise 2.20

The following game was played on a popular television show. The host showed a contestant
three large curtains. Behind one of the curtains was a nice prize (maybe a new car) and behind
the other two curtains were worthless prizes (duds). The contestant was asked to choose one
curtain. If the curtains are identified by their prizes, they could be labeled G, D1, and D2 (Good
Prize, Dud1, and Dud2). Thus, the sample space for the contestants choice is S = {G, D1, D2}.

a. If the contestant has no idea which curtains hide the various prizes and selects a curtain at
random, assign reasonable probabilities to the simple events and calculate the probability
that the contestant selects the curtain hiding the nice prize.

b. Before showing the contestant what was behind the curtain initially chosen, the game show
host would open one of the curtains and show the contestant one of the duds (he could
always do this because he knew the curtain hiding the good prize). He then offered the
contestant the option of changing from the curtain initially selected to the other remaining
unopened curtain.

Which strategy maximizes the contestant’s probability of winning the
good prize: stay with the initial choice or switch to the other curtain? In answering the
following sequence of questions, you will discover that, perhaps surprisingly, this question
can be answered by considering only the sample space above and using the probabilities
that you assigned to answer part (a).

i If the contestant chooses to stay with her initial choice, she wins the good prize if and
only if she initially chose curtain G. If she stays with her initial choice, what is the
probability that she wins the good prize?

ii If the host shows her one of the duds and she switches to the other unopened curtain,
what will be the result if she had initially selected G?

iii Answer the question in part (ii) if she had initially selected one of the duds.
iv If the contestant switches from her initial choice (as the result of being shown one of
the duds), what is the probability that the contestant wins the good prize?

v Which strategy maximizes the contestant’s probability of winning the good prize: stay
with the initial choice or switch to the other curtain?